END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

GroupWise 18
GroupWise Mobility Service 18
GroupWise Messenger 18
Enterprise Messaging Suite

IMPORTANT: LICENSOR IS PROVIDING THIS LICENSED SOFTWARE TO LICENSEE (THE ORIGINAL PURCHASER EITHER 
AS AN INDIVIDUAL OR ON BEHALF OF ANOTHER LEGAL ENTITY AS ITS EMPLOYEE OR AUTHORIZED AGENT) FOR ITS 
USE SUBJECT TO LICENSEE’S AGREEMENT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH BELOW.  THESE TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM THE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT(S) THAT ACCOMPANIED EARLIER 
RELEASES OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE.  PLEASE READ THEM CAREFULLY TO ENSURE FULL UNDERSTANDING BEFORE 
PROCEEDING, AS THEY MAY CONTAIN ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE. PLEASE DIRECT 
ANY QUESTIONS TO THE MICRO FOCUS LEGAL DEPARTMENT AT LEGALDEPT@MICROFOCUS.COM. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE 
TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, YOU WILL NOT BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE 
LICENSED SOFTWARE.  BY CLICKING THE ACCEPT BUTTON OR SIMILAR ACCEPTANCE MECHANISM DURING 
INSTALLATION, OR BY COPYING OR USING THE LICENSED SOFTWARE, LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS READ 
THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, UNDERSTOOD IT, AND AGREED TO BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  THE 
LICENSED SOFTWARE IS LICENSED NOT SOLD.


For this End User License Agreement (“License Agreement”) the following terms shall have the 
meanings given below:
“Documentation” means the Licensor user documentation that is included with the Licensed Software.

“Licensee” or “You” means the single legal entity or person that rightfully acquires the Licensed 
Software from Licensor or from a distributor or reseller of Licensor.

“License Options” means those license options set forth in Annex 1 to this License Agreement.

“Licensor” means Micro Focus Software, Inc. 

“Licensed Software” means the object code version of the Licensor computer program(s) listed above, 
their Documentation, and other supplemental materials, as provided to Licensee by Licensor, 
including but not limited to any software security keys relating thereto. The Documentation may be 
delivered electronically and may only be available in the English language. The Licensed Software 
will be accompanied by a license key where required for activation and use of the Licensed 
Software. The Licensed Software shall also include, and this License Agreement shall govern the 
use of any update to the Licensed Software that Licensee receives pursuant to a separate support 
and/or maintenance purchase as described in Section 6 below, unless such update contains or comes 
with a different end user license agreement, in which case such end user license agreement shall 
supersede this License Agreement and govern the use of such software license without need for a 
mutually executed amendment to this License Agreement as set forth in Section 17 of this License 
Agreement. This License Agreement does not grant Licensee the right to any updates to the Licensed 
Software unless provided by Licensor under Section 6 and/or Section 7 below. 

“Product Order” means a document that has been (i) executed by Licensee describing each Licensed 
Software license to be purchased, and (ii) accepted by Licensor.  Licensor will accept the Product 
Order by either confirming Licensor’s acceptance in writing or by delivering the Licensed Software 
to Licensee, whichever occurs first.  A Product Order may also mean a written quote, or if referred 
to as such, a solution order, issued by Licensor describing each Licensed Software license 
purchased that is accepted by Licensee within the validity period of the quote either by Licensee 
executing and returning the quote or a solution order, to Licensor, by Licensee issuing a purchase 
order or other written confirmation of acceptance to Licensor in conformance with the quote, 
and/or by Licensee paying to Licensor all fees set forth in the quote. Each Product Order shall 
constitute a separate agreement and shall incorporate therein this License Agreement.  In the 
event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of this License Agreement and the terms and 
conditions of any Product Order, the conflicting terms and conditions of the Product Order shall 
govern.  In no event shall any terms and conditions contained in a purchase order or similar 
document issued by Licensee in connection with this License Agreement or with a Product Order apply 
and any such document issued shall be only for the administrative purposes of identifying the 
Licensed Software ordered, the number of licenses, and the price to be paid and shall have no other 
legal effect.  Licensor for purposes of this paragraph shall mean Licensor or, if applicable, one 
of Licensor’s authorized resellers from whom Licensee purchases the Licensed Software, provided 
however that any conflicting or additional terms in a Product Order accepted by an authorized 
reseller of Licensor shall have no effect unless such terms have been agreed by Licensor in writing.

“Warranty Period” means a period of ninety (90) days from delivery of the Licensed Software to 
Licensee.

1 GRANT OF LICENSE; LICENSE CONDITIONS.  For payment of the applicable non-refundable license fees 
identified on the Product Order and subject to Licensee’s compliance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in this License Agreement, Licensor grants solely to Licensee, as an end user, a 
personal, perpetual (unless a subscription/term license has been purchased by Licensee), 
non-transferable, non-sublicensable and nonexclusive license to use the Licensed Software solely 
for its own internal use and benefit. Licensee’s use and operation of the Licensed Software and 
the license grant provided to the Licensed Software is subject to Licensee being in possession of 
a valid license key where required for the Licensed Software to run.  Licensee agrees that 
Licensor is not liable or responsible for lost or broken license keys or media or the provision of 
replacement license keys or media and/or new license keys or media unless Licensee is current on 
support and maintenance for the applicable license and then only to the extent set forth in the 
applicable annual support and/or maintenance agreement and only to the extent Licensor then has 
sufficient rights from any applicable third party suppliers, if necessary, to provide such 
replacement.  If not current on support and maintenance for the applicable license, replacement or 
new license keys or media may be available for purchase at Licensor’s then current list fees for 
applicable new licenses.  Different License Options are available from Licensor as set forth or 
referred to in Annex 1. The applicable License Option and license count to be purchased by 
Licensee for the Licensed Software shall be identified in the Product Order or otherwise 
identified in writing by Licensor. Licensed Software is also subject to additional terms and 
conditions as set forth in the “Specific Software Terms” located in Annex 2. Any conflicting terms 
and conditions shall be resolved according to the following order of precedence: Annex 2, Annex 1, 
and the main body of the License Agreement. 
2 USE RESTRICTIONS.  Except as may be otherwise specifically permitted in Annex 1 or Annex 2 to 
this License Agreement, Licensee agrees not to:
2.1	Copy and/or distribute the Licensed Software, in whole or in part, for internal use without 
paying Licensor the applicable additional fees required by Licensor, except (i) for making a 
reasonable number of archival back-up copies; or (ii) as expressly authorized by Licensor in 
writing; or (iii) for making a reasonable number of copies of the Documentation supplied to 
Licensee by Licensor in electronic form.  Licensee shall reproduce and affix all copyright and 
other proprietary rights notices appearing in or on the Licensed Software, including notices of all 
third party suppliers.
2.2	Use the Licensed Software for timesharing, facilities management, outsourcing, hosting, 
service bureau use, or for providing other application service (ASP) or data processing services 
to third parties or for like purposes.
2.3	Modify the Licensed Software or provide any person with the means to do the same. 
2.4	Create derivative works of the Licensed Software, or translate, disassemble, recompile or 
reverse engineer the Licensed Software or attempt to do so (except to the extent applicable law 
specifically permits such activity).
2.5	Alter, destroy, or otherwise remove any proprietary notices or labels on or embedded 
within the Licensed Software or Documentation.
2.6	Use the Licensed Software in a manner other than as specifically permitted in this License 
Agreement.
3 AUDITS.  Licensor or an Auditor (as defined below) has the right to verify Licensee’s compliance 
with this License Agreement (and please see Micro Focus License Compliance Charter - 
http://supportline.microfocus.com/licensing/licVerification.aspx). Licensee agrees to:
A. Implement internal safeguards to prevent any unauthorized copying, distribution, installation, 
or use of, or access to, the Licensed Software and associated support and maintenance, or breach 
of the terms or conditions of this License Agreement;
B. Take all necessary steps to destroy or erase all Licensed Software codes, programs and other 
proprietary information before disposing of any media containing the Licensed Software;
C. Keep records sufficient to certify Licensee’s compliance with this License Agreement including 
serial numbers and license keys of the Licensed Software, hypervisor logs where applicable, and 
the location, model (including quantity and type of processor) and serial number of all machines 
on which the Licensed Software is installed or from which the Licensed Software is accessed, and 
the names (including corporate entity) and number of users that are accessing the Licensed 
Software, and, upon request of Licensor, provide and certify metrics and/or reports based upon 
such records and account for, among other things, numbers of copies (by product and version) and 
network architectures as they may reasonably relate to Licensee’s licensing and deployment of the 
Licensed Software and associated support and maintenance;
D. Upon Licensor’s request, Licensee shall furnish Licensor or an independent auditor chosen at 
Licensor’s sole discretion (“Auditor”), within seven (7) days of the request, with a completed 
questionnaire provided by Licensor or the Auditor, and with a written statement, in a format 
required by Licensor, signed by a director of Licensee, certifying the accuracy of any information 
provided;
E.	Allow a Licensor representative or an Auditor to inspect and audit Licensee’s computers 
and records, during Licensee’s normal business hours, for compliance with the licensing terms for 
Licensor’s software products and associated maintenance. Upon Licensor’s (and Auditor’s if 
applicable) presentation of their signed written confidentiality statement form, Licensee shall 
fully cooperate with such audit and provide any necessary assistance and access to records and 
computers; and 
F.	In the event that Licensee has or at any time has had unlicensed installation, use of, or 
access to the Licensed Software or has otherwise breached the license granted 
(a “Non-Compliance”), without prejudice to any other rights or remedies Licensor may have, 
including without limitation injunctive relief, Licensee shall, within thirty (30) days, purchase 
sufficient licenses and or subscriptions and associated support and maintenance to cure the 
Non-Compliance, without benefit of any otherwise applicable discount, by paying Licensor’s current 
(as of the date of such additional purchase) list license fees and 12-month support and 
maintenance fees to Licensor for such additional licenses, plus Licensor’s current (as of the 
date of such additional purchase) list term license and support and maintenance fees and interest 
(compounded at 1.5% monthly or the maximum rate permitted by applicable law if lower) for such 
additional licenses for the time period from the commencement of the Non-Compliance until payment 
of the aforementioned fees.  The aforementioned interest shall be payable even if an invoice was 
not issued at the time the Non-Compliance commenced.  If a material license shortfall of 5% or 
more is found, Licensee shall also reimburse Licensor for the reasonable cost of such audit in 
addition to other amounts due.  The obligations in this Section 3 shall apply to both Licensee’s 
Non-Compliance and any third party’s Non-Compliance.  
4 DOCUMENTATION.  One (1) electronic copy of Licensor’s standard Documentation, describing 
Licensor’s recommended use and application of the Licensed Software, will be furnished or made 
available on Licensor’s website free of additional charge to Licensee by Licensor with the 
Licensed Software.  Printed copies of any Documentation may be available for purchase from 
Licensor or its authorized distributors. Additional copies of standard Documentation may be 
available on Licensor’s website.
5 TERM OF LICENSE.  This License Agreement and Licensee’s license for the Licensed Software is 
perpetual, unless a subscription/term license has been purchased by Licensee (in which case the 
term of the license shall be as set forth in the Product Order, specified in Annex 1 or Annex 2, 
or as otherwise agreed in writing between the Licensee and Licensor), and is subject to earlier 
termination as provided in this Section 5.  If Licensee has purchased a subscription/term license, 
Licensee’s license to the Licensed Software shall automatically terminate upon expiry of such 
subscription/term.  Licensor may terminate this License Agreement and Licensee’s license to the 
Licensed Software immediately by giving Licensee written notice of termination in the event that 
either (i) Licensee breaches any term or condition of this License Agreement and Licensee has 
failed to remedy such breach within ten (10) days of the date of notice from Licensor to Licensee 
or (ii) Licensee is wound up, has a receiver appointed or has applied for or enters into 
liquidation or bankruptcy or analogous process or processes.  Termination shall be without 
prejudice to any other rights or remedies Licensor may have.  In the event of any termination 
Licensee will have no right to keep, access, or use the Licensed Software or any copy of the 
Licensed Software for any purpose and Licensee shall destroy and erase all copies of such Licensed 
Software in its possession or control, and forward written certification to Licensor that all such 
copies of Licensed Software have been destroyed or erased.  Termination shall not entitle the 
Licensee to any refund or reimbursement of any kind of previously paid fees. The rights and 
obligations of the parties contained in Sections 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13, and other sections 
that by their nature are intended to survive, will survive the termination or expiration of this 
License Agreement.
6 SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE.  Where Licensee purchases support and/or maintenance services, 
Licensee’s initial support and/or maintenance term will begin upon delivery to Licensee of the 
Licensed Software and continue for one (1) year thereafter (or the length of the term if less than 
a year for any subscription/term license) unless otherwise specified in the applicable annual 
support and/or maintenance agreement, Product Order, or other written agreement executed between 
Licensor and Licensee.  Where Licensee purchases support and/or maintenance for any Licensed 
Software, Licensee hereby agrees that it shall purchase such support and/or maintenance services 
for all of Licensee’s licensed units of such Licensed Software product.  Support and/or 
maintenance services provided by Licensor will be subject to Licensor’s then current applicable 
standard annual support and/or maintenance agreement unless otherwise agreed by the parties in 
writing.  
7 LIMITED WARRANTY.  Licensor warrants for the Warranty Period (i) that if the Licensed Software 
is supplied via media, then the media will be free from defects in materials or workmanship under 
normal use and (ii) that the copy of the Licensed Software delivered to Licensee conforms in all 
material respects to the Documentation.  As the sole and exclusive remedy for not meeting part 
(i) of the above warranty, Licensor’s sole obligation shall be to repair or replace free of charge 
any defective media on which the Licensed Software is delivered if the media is returned to 
Licensor by Licensee during the Warranty Period.  As the sole and exclusive remedy for not meeting 
part (ii) of the above warranty, Licensor shall repair or replace the Licensed Software free of 
charge so that it conforms with the warranty or, if Licensor reasonably determines that such 
remedy is not economically or technically feasible, Licensee shall be entitled to a full refund of 
the license fee and any maintenance fee paid by Licensee with respect to that particular Licensed 
Software.  Upon such refund Licensee’s license to use such Licensed Software will terminate.  The 
warranty set forth in this Section 7 shall not apply if the defect in the Licensed Software is the 
result of: (a) the Licensed Software not being used in accordance with the Documentation, this 
License Agreement or with the platform(s) for which the Licensed Software has been designed and 
licensed by Licensor; or (b) the Licensed Software having been altered, modified or converted by 
Licensee or any third party except as may be specified in the Documentation; or (c) the 
malfunctioning of Licensee’s equipment; or (d) accident or abuse; or (e) service by any 
unauthorized person; or (f) other software used by Licensee which has not been provided by 
Licensor or for which the Licensed Software is not designed and licensed for operation; or 
(g) Third Party Software (as defined herein); or (h) any other cause occurring after initial 
delivery of the media to Licensee unless caused directly by Licensor.  The foregoing states the 
complete and entire remedies that Licensee has under this warranty.  Licensor shall have no 
responsibility for any warranty claims made outside of the Warranty Period.  The foregoing 
warranty shall not apply to any free-of-charge Licensed Software including updates, though issues 
with such software may be eligible for support under applicable support terms and conditions.      
8 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  The Licensed Software cannot be tested in every possible operating 
environment, therefore Licensor does not warrant that the functions contained in the Licensed 
Software will meet Licensee’s requirements, that operation of the Licensed Software will be 
uninterrupted, or that the Licensed Software is error free.  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH HEREIN AND TO THE 
EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, QUALITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE EXCLUDED ON THE PART OF LICENSOR AND ITS THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS.  Licensee 
acknowledges that Licensee is responsible for the selection of the Licensed Software to achieve 
Licensee’s intended results and for the installation and/or use of, and results obtained from, the 
Licensed Software.  
9 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  ANY LIABILITY OF LICENSOR SHALL BE LIMITED IN THE AGGREGATE TO THE 
AMOUNTS PAID BY LICENSEE FOR THE LICENSED SOFTWARE GIVING RISE TO THE APPLICABLE CLAIM.  THIS 
LIMITATION APPLIES TO ALL CAUSES OF ACTION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION BREACH OF CONTRACT, 
BREACH OF WARRANTY, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, MISREPRESENTATION AND OTHER TORTS.  IN NO EVENT 
SHALL LICENSOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR SIMILAR 
DAMAGES NOR FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, CONTRACTS, DATA, OR PROGRAMS, OR THE COST OF RECOVERING SUCH 
DATA OR PROGRAMS, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE.  LICENSOR’S 
LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY ARE NOT CUMULATIVE.  LICENSEE’S REMEDIES IN THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT ARE 
LICENSEE’S EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES.
	NONE OF LICENSOR’S THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INJURY, LOSS OR DAMAGE, 
WHETHER DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL NOR FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, 
CONTRACTS, DATA, OR PROGRAMS, OR THE COST OF RECOVERING SUCH DATA OR PROGRAMS, EVEN IF INFORMED OF 
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE. 
 	LICENSEE AGREES THAT, IN ENTERING INTO THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, EITHER IT DID NOT RELY ON 
ANY REPRESENTATIONS (WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL) OF ANY KIND OTHER THAN THOSE EXPRESSLY SET OUT IN 
THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, OR IF IT DID RELY ON ANY REPRESENTATIONS, THAT IT SHALL HAVE NO REMEDY 
AGAINST LICENSOR IN RESPECT OF SUCH REPRESENTATIONS.
	LICENSEE FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY IN THIS SECTION ARE AN 
ESSENTIAL ELEMENT OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT AND THAT, IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH LIMITATIONS, THE 
PRICING AND OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH HEREIN WOULD BE SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT.
	NEITHER THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT NOR ANYTHING IN THIS SECTION 9 SHALL EXCLUDE OR RESTRICT 
THE LIABILITY OF LICENSOR OR ITS THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS TO ANY EXTENT NOT PERMITTED BY LAW.  
10 HIGH-RISK USES.  The Licensed Software is not fault tolerant, nor designed, manufactured or 
intended for use in hazardous environments requiring fail-safe performance (including, without 
limitation, the operation of nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation or communication systems, air 
traffic control, direct life support machines, or weapons systems) in which failure of the 
Licensed Software could lead directly or indirectly to death, personal injury or severe physical 
or environmental damage.  Licensor and its suppliers shall have no liability for any use of the 
Licensed Software in any high-risk situations. 
11 OWNERSHIP.  Licensor (or its affiliates) and where applicable Licensor’s third party suppliers 
have and will retain all ownership rights to the Licensed Software, together with any complete or 
partial copies thereof. Such ownership rights include without limitation all patent rights, 
copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, service marks, related goodwill, and confidential and 
proprietary information relating thereto.  This License Agreement does not convey any proprietary 
interest to Licensee with respect to the Licensed Software other than the license specified herein.
12 THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE AND COMPONENTS.  The Licensed Software may come with and/or require certain 
named third party software programs that Licensee shall license directly from the third party 
subject to such third party’s terms and conditions (for example Adobe Acrobat or Microsoft Internet 
Explorer) (“Third Party Software”).  Any Third Party Software is provided by the licensor of the 
Third Party Software solely under a direct license between such third party and Licensee under such 
third party’s terms and conditions.  Therefore the obligations, duties and rights of Licensor and 
Licensee under this License Agreement do not apply to such Third Party Software.  Additionally, 
Licensor has embedded in some Licensed Software certain run time or other elements provided by 
third party suppliers to Licensor (“Third Party Components”). Such Third Party Components may also 
be loaded on the Licensed Software media. Third Party Components are licensed to Licensee pursuant 
to this License Agreement.  Third Party Components may also include open source software, details 
of which (where applicable) may be found (i) in a file accompanying the applicable Licensed 
Software or (ii) in the applicable Documentation. Licensee may only access Third Party Components 
of the Licensed Software in the course of using the Licensed Software.  Licensee may not make or 
attempt any direct access to any such Third Party Components other than with the Licensed Software.
All limitations, restrictions and obligations applicable to the Licensed Software set forth in this 
License Agreement shall apply to Licensee’s use of the Third Party Components. The Third Party 
Software and Third Party Components are the property of its respective third party supplier to 
Licensor.  Such third party suppliers own all copies of the Third Party Software and Third Party 
Components, however made. Licensee agrees not to contest the ownership of the Third Party Software 
and Third Party Components nor use any trademark or service mark belonging to such third party 
suppliers.  Licensee agrees that such third party suppliers are intended third party beneficiaries 
of all terms and conditions of this License Agreement intended to protect intellectual property 
rights in the Licensed Software (including the Third Party Components) and limit certain uses 
thereof. Nothing in this License Agreement shall restrict, limit or otherwise affect any rights or 
obligations Licensee may have, or conditions to which Licensee may be subject, under any 
applicable open source licenses to any open source code contained in the Licensed Software.
13 NOTICE TO U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.  The Licensed Software and Documentation are deemed to be 
“Commercial Items,” as defined at 48 C.F.R. §2.101, consisting of “Commercial Computer Software” 
and “Commercial Computer Software Documentation,” as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 
48 C.F.R. §227.7207, as applicable.  Consistent with such sections, the Licensed Software and 
Documentation are licensed to U.S. Government end users (i) only as Commercial Items, and 
(ii) with only those rights as are granted pursuant to this License Agreement.  Manufacturer is 
Micro Focus (US), Inc., 700 King Farm Blvd., Suite 125, Rockville, MD  20850 as or on behalf of 
Licensor.
14 LICENSE FEES AND PAYMENT TERMS.  Licensee agrees to pay the applicable end user license fees for 
the Licensed Software within thirty (30) days of the date of invoice or such other date as agreed 
in writing by the parties.  End user license fees are non-refundable except as provided in 
Section 7 above, or in the Specific Software Terms below, and shall be paid without deduction, 
including without limitation, of any withholding tax.  End user license fees are exclusive of any 
applicable transportation charges, value added and other applicable taxes and duties and all such 
amounts shall be paid or reimbursed by Licensee. Outstanding past-due amounts shall accrue 
interest at the rate of 1.5% per month compounded or, if lower, the maximum rate allowed by 
applicable law.  Licensee shall be liable for any such interest and all related collection costs, 
whether or not an action has been filed. Licensor may decline to enter into any additional Product 
Orders if any such past-due balance, interest and collection costs are not paid.
15 RELATED SERVICES.  Licensee shall be responsible for obtaining and installing all proper 
hardware and support software (including operating systems) and for proper installation and 
implementation of and training concerning the Licensed Software.  In the event that Licensee 
retains Licensor to perform any services with respect to the Licensed Software (for example: 
installation, implementation, maintenance, consulting and/or training services), Licensee and 
Licensor agree that such services shall be subject to Licensor’s then current standard terms, 
conditions and rates for such services unless otherwise agreed in writing by Licensor.
16 PRIVACY.  If the Licensed Software contains features that may allow Licensee to collect data 
from, control and/or monitor computers running the Licensed Software deployed by Licensee 
without notice to or knowledge by users of the Licensed Software, then: (i) Licensee is solely 
responsible for, and assumes all liability with respect to, the collection of data with respect 
to its users of the Licensed Software including, without limitation, notifying such users and 
complying with all data collection, privacy and other regulations, laws, industry standards and 
rights of others applicable to any such activity; and (ii) Licensee shall indemnify and hold 
Licensor harmless from and against any damages, claims, losses, settlements, attorneys' fees, 
legal fees and court costs and other expenses related to any such activities or any claims in 
connection therewith.  To the extent permitted by law, by entering into this License Agreement, 
Licensee hereby expressly consents to (i) Licensor sending information to Licensee from time to 
time advertising the various products that Licensor provides, whether or not such products are 
provided under this License Agreement; (ii) the use of Licensee’s name in Licensor customer 
lists, promotional materials and/or press releases; and (iii) the collection and use by Licensor 
of information about the computer system on which the Licensed Software is installed 
(e.g. product version, serial number) for  internal security and licensing purposes; Licensor 
does not use this information to identify individuals utilizing such software.
17 MISCELLANEOUS.  Licensor may assign this License Agreement (in whole or in part) to any member 
of Licensor’s group of companies or to a purchaser of the intellectual property rights in the 
Licensed Software, but otherwise neither this License Agreement nor any rights hereunder may be 
assigned (any change of control merger, sale or other transfer of all, or substantially all, of 
the assets of Licensee shall be included in the meaning of an assignment) nor duties delegated 
by either party, and any attempt to do so will be void.  
If Licensee acquires the Licensed Software in North America, the laws of the state of Utah govern 
this License Agreement and the licenses granted hereunder and the parties hereto consent and agree 
that they shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State and/or Federal courts 
sitting in the State of Utah in any action based on this License Agreement or concerning the 
licenses granted, or the products licensed, hereunder.  Each party waives any right it may have to 
object to such venue, including objections based on personal jurisdiction or forum non conveniens 
(inconvenient forum).  The parties agree that the Uniform Computer Information Transaction Act or 
any version thereof, adopted by any state, in any form ("UCITA"), shall not apply to this License 
Agreement.  To the extent that UCITA is applicable, the parties hereby opt out of the 
applicability of UCITA pursuant to the opt-out provision(s) contained therein.  If Licensee 
acquires the Licensed Software in France, Germany or Japan, this License Agreement is governed by 
the laws of the country in which Licensee acquired the Licensed Software.  In the rest of the 
world the laws of England govern this License Agreement.  The aforesaid applicable law shall apply 
without regard to conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and without regard to the United Nations 
Convention on the International Sale of Goods.  Other than for North American transactions, this 
License Agreement, the licenses granted hereunder, and the parties hereto, shall be subject to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the country determining the applicable law as aforesaid.  
In the event of a dispute, the prevailing party shall have the right to collect from the other 
party its reasonable costs and necessary disbursements and attorneys' fees incurred in enforcing 
this License Agreement.  This License Agreement is in addition subject to any United States, 
United Kingdom or European Union laws, regulations and other restrictions regarding export or 
re-export of computer software and technology.  Licensee agrees not to export or re-export any 
Licensed Software or derivative thereof in contradiction to any such applicable restriction.  In 
particular but without limitation, Licensee acknowledges that Licensor’s products and/or 
technology are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (the “EAR”) and Licensee 
agrees to comply with the EAR.  Licensee will not export or re-export Licensor’s products, 
directly or indirectly, to: (1) any countries that are subject to US or applicable export 
restrictions; (2) any end user who Licensee knows or has reason to know will utilize Licensor’s 
products in the design, development or production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, or 
rocket systems, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets, or unmanned air vehicle systems; or 
(3) any end user who has been prohibited from participating in export transactions by any 
applicable agency of government. By downloading or using the Licensed Software, Licensee is 
agreeing to the foregoing and Licensee is representing and warranting that Licensee is not located 
in, under the control of, or a national or resident of any such country or on any such list.
Licensor may identify Licensee by name and/or logo as a licensee of Licensor for investor 
relations, analyst relations, and public relations purposes, and in online and printed sales and 
marketing materials. Any other use of Licensee’s name or logo, or a description of Licensee’s use 
of the Licensed Software, shall be subject to Licensee’s prior consent.  Within eight (8) weeks 
after installation of the Licensed Software, upon Licensor’s written request Licensee will provide 
Licensor with input to a written description of Licensee’s use of the Licensed Software including 
details of the business challenge, software solution, and results realised from the installation 
of the Licensed Software. The input shall be provided by a representative of Licensee (who is 
knowledgeable of the Licensed Software and its performance after installation) during a meeting 
with a representative of Licensor (at a reasonable time to be agreed by the parties).  The meeting 
may be conducted by telephone.  This input may be used internally within Licensor and in 
confidential sales situations. Any other use of this input shall be subject to Licensee’s prior 
consent.
Except for the Product Order, this License Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of 
agreement between the parties relating to the license for the Licensed Software and supersedes all 
proposals, communications, purchase orders, and prior agreements, verbal or written, including 
without limitation prior end user license agreements in relation to the Licensed Software between 
the parties and end user license agreements embedded in such Licensed Software.  No employee, 
agent, or representative of Licensor has the authority to bind Licensor to any oral representation 
or warranty concerning the Licensed Software.  No representation or statement not expressly 
contained in this License Agreement nor any supplement, modification, or amendment of this License 
Agreement will be binding on either party unless executed in writing by a duly authorized 
representative of Licensor and Licensee (excluding any distributor or reseller of Licensor) to 
this License Agreement.  No waiver of any right under this License Agreement will be effective 
unless in writing, signed by a duly authorized representative of the party to be bound (excluding 
any distributor or reseller of Licensor).  No waiver of any past or present right arising from any 
breach or failure to perform will be deemed to be a waiver of any future right arising under this 
License Agreement.  If any provision in this License Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, that 
provision will be construed, limited, modified or, if necessary, severed, to the extent necessary, 
to eliminate its invalidity or unenforceability, and the other provisions of this License 
Agreement will remain unaffected.  Each party acknowledges that in entering into this License 
Agreement it has not relied on any representations, agreements, warranties or other assurances 
(other than those repeated in this License Agreement and the Product Order) and waives all rights 
and remedies which but for this section 17 would be available to it.  Nothing in this section 17 
excludes liability for fraudulent misrepresentation.
If Licensee is situated in Italy, by placing or executing a Product Order, Licensee declares to 
have read and to have explicitly approved the following clauses of the License Agreement: 5. Term 
of License, 6. Support and Maintenance, 7. Limited Warranty, 8. Disclaimer of Warranty, 
9. Limitation of Liability, 10. High-Risk Uses, 16. Privacy, 17. Miscellaneous, Annex 1, and 
Annex 2.

ANNEX 1, LICENSE OPTIONS  
The term “Licensee” is interchangeable with “You” or “Your”.

CONVERSION OF USER LICENSES TO MAILBOX LICENSES 

GroupWise 2018 is licensed and sold per mailbox.  If You have licensed versions of GroupWise prior 
to GroupWise 2018 on a user basis, then upon first installation or use of the GroupWise 2018 
Licensed Software Your user licenses automatically convert at a one:one ratio to mailbox licenses.
No further action is required on Your part to convert Your user licenses to mailbox licenses.   If 
You do not want to convert Your user licenses to mailbox licenses, You may not upgrade to or 
deploy GroupWise 2018 and You must remain on a prior version of GroupWise.  If You wish to remain 
on a prior version of GroupWise, any GroupWise mailbox license You purchase or renew entitles You 
to deploy the prior version on a user basis subject to the end user license agreement accompanying 
the prior version, as an authorized alternative to deploying GroupWise 2018.  If You have received 
GroupWise 2018 as a part of the Open Workgroup Suite (“NOWS”), then Your mailbox licenses remain 
as user or device licenses as applicable and as defined in the end user license agreement for NOWS.

LICENSED USE

GroupWise 2018

The following licenses apply to Your use of the Licensed Software depending on which product 
licenses You have purchased. Certain benefits are available only if You are current on maintenance 
for Your licenses. Except for Test Mailboxes and Resource Mailboxes, each GroupWise mailbox 
created using the Licensed Software requires the purchase of a Full Client License, Limited Client 
License, or Inactive License based on the use as specified below.  You may transfer licenses 
between mailboxes as Your usage changes.  For example, You can buy an Inactive License for a Full 
Client License mailbox that is no longer used for purposes other than archive and transfer that 
Full Client License to another mailbox. 

GroupWise Mailbox Full Client License.  A Full Client License is required for each mailbox that 
has been accessed by one or more of the following:  the GroupWise client for Windows or Mac 
(grpwise.exe), GroupWise Notify (notify.exe), GroupWise Address Book (addrbook.exe), or a 
third-party plug-in to the GroupWise client API.

GroupWise Mailbox Limited Client License.  A Limited Client License may be used only for a mailbox 
that has been accessed solely by GroupWise WebAccess (including mobile devices), GroupWise client 
for Windows via the Proxy feature, GroupWise client for Windows via the busy search feature, a 
mobile device that is synchronizing GroupWise through GroupWise Mobility Service, a POP client, an 
IMAP client, a SOAP client, a client that is synchronizing GroupWise through the GroupWise 
CalDAV/CardDAV server,  or a third-party plug-in to the GroupWise SOAP protocol.

GroupWise Mailbox Inactive License. An Inactive License may be used only for a mailbox that is 
designated as an inactive mailbox by the administrator by explicitly setting the mailbox to an 
Inactive License and at least sixty (60) days have passed since the inactive mailbox designation 
has occurred.  An Inactive License permits You to use any GroupWise client method to access the 
inactive mailbox.  However, an inactive mailbox cannot receive messages and has other limitations 
on functionality consistent with the inactive status.

GroupWise Test Mailbox. You are not required to purchase a license for a GroupWise Test Mailbox, 
which is defined as follows: 1) no more than two (2) mailboxes per post office that exist in Your 
internal, production environment but are used solely for testing purposes; or 2) no more than 
twenty-five (25) mailboxes that exists in Your internal, non-production environment and that are 
used solely for testing or demonstration purposes.

GroupWise Resource Mailbox. You are not required to purchase a license for a GroupWise Resource 
Mailbox, which is a mailbox created and designated as a resource mailbox as described in the 
GroupWise user documentation.  GroupWise Resource Mailboxes include mailboxes used for a place, 
item or role (such as a computer, company vehicle, or conference room) that users can schedule or 
busy search.  If You have purchased licenses for the Micro Focus iPrint product, a GroupWise 
Resource Mailbox can be used to facilitate mobile printing.

NetIQ eDirectory License. The quantity of user licenses for the NetIQ eDirectory software included 
with Your lawfully acquired licenses of the GroupWise 2018 Licensed Software is equal to the 
greater of (1) the quantity of mailbox licenses You have lawfully acquired for the GroupWise 2018 
Licensed Software, or (2) 250,000 users per company/entity. The foregoing eDirectory licenses are 
not upgradeable and are otherwise subject to the license agreement accompanying the eDirectory 
software and the definition of “user” specified therein.

SLES License. Notwithstanding the license rights in the license agreement accompanying the copy of 
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (“SLES”) You received with the Licensed Software, You agree to use 
SLES solely for the purpose of running GroupWise Licensed Software (and successor software) and 
not as a general purpose operating system.  In addition, SLES may be installed only on servers on 
which the GroupWise Licensed Software is also installed. As a benefit of Your maintenance or 
subscription coverage for the GroupWise Licensed Software, You are entitled to updates and 
security patches for SLES that are made generally available to SLES subscribers 
(“Update Entitlement”).  Benefits of Your Update Entitlement apply only to use of SLES as 
authorized herein and may not be used for any other purpose.  Your Update Entitlement terminates 
on the earlier of (1) termination or expiration of maintenance coverage for Your GroupWise 
licenses, or (2) purchase of maintenance coverage for less than the total number of Your GroupWise 
licenses. If You have licensed GroupWise under an academic or school licensing program, then the 
reference to maintenance coverage in this paragraph refers to Your subscription coverage.
 
GroupWise Mobility Service

Use of the GroupWise Mobility Service Licensed Software is a benefit of Your maintenance or 
subscription coverage for specific products.  You are granted a limited license to reproduce and 
internally use the GroupWise Mobility Service Licensed Software to sync data to mobile devices for 
GroupWise users licensed either through the GroupWise, Enterprise Messaging Suite or Open 
Workgroup Suite products (each an “Associated Product”). The foregoing license grant applies 
solely during Your maintenance or subscription term for the Associated Product.  Your limited 
GroupWise Mobility Service license will receive maintenance benefits equivalent to those 
applicable to Your Associated Product licenses or subscriptions during Your Associated Product 
maintenance or subscription period. Your license to use the GroupWise Mobility Service Licensed 
Software terminates and You must entirely delete the GroupWise Mobility Service Licensed Software 
from Your system upon the earlier of (1) termination or expiration of maintenance or subscription 
coverage of Your Associated Product licenses, or (2) purchase of maintenance coverage for less 
than the total number of Your Associated Product licenses.  

GroupWise Messenger

Use of GroupWise Messenger is a benefit of Your maintenance or subscription coverage for specific 
products.  If You have purchased mailbox licenses for GroupWise 2018 or Enterprise Messaging Suite 
on a subscription basis or are current on Your maintenance coverage for Your GroupWise 2018 or 
Enterprise Messaging Suite licenses, then You are entitled to use GroupWise Messenger in 
connection with Your Enterprise Messaging mailbox licenses or the aggregate number of Your 
GroupWise 2018 mailbox Full Client Licenses and Limited Client Licenses.  Your license to use the 
GroupWise Messenger Licensed Software terminates and You must entirely delete the GroupWise 
Messenger Licensed Software from Your system upon the earlier of (1) termination or expiration of 
maintenance or subscription coverage, or (2) purchase of maintenance coverage for less than the 
total number of Your GroupWise 2018 or Enterprise Messaging Suite licenses.

Enterprise Messaging Suite

The Enterprise Messaging Suite offering includes multiple products licensed to You under a suite 
license.  Notwithstanding the GWAVA, Inc. end user license agreement or software license agreement 
that may accompany or apply to individual products included in the Enterprise Messaging Suite, You 
agree that this License Agreement supersedes and replaces such agreements and governs 

If You have prior GroupWise licenses, then Your upgrade purchase of Enterprise Messaging Suite 
licenses automatically and permanently retires Your GroupWise Mailbox Full Client Licenses and 
GroupWise Mailbox Limited Licenses without any further action by You. GroupWise Inactive Mailbox 
Licenses are not affected.

The following licenses apply to Your use of the Enterprise Messaging Suite depending on which 
product licenses You have purchased. Certain benefits are available only if You are current on 
maintenance for Your licenses. Except for Test Mailboxes and Resource Mailboxes, each mailbox 
created using the Licensed Software requires the purchase of a Mailbox License or Inactive 
License based on the use as specified below.  You may transfer licenses between mailboxes as Your 
usage changes.  For example, You can buy an Inactive License for a mailbox that is no longer used 
for purposes other than archive and transfer that Mailbox License to another mailbox. 

Enterprise Messaging Suite Mailbox License.  A Mailbox License is required for each mailbox that 
has been accessed by one or more of the following:  the GroupWise client for Windows or Mac 
(grpwise.exe), GroupWise Notify (notify.exe), GroupWise Address Book (addrbook.exe), or a 
third-party plug-in to the GroupWise client API GroupWise WebAccess (including mobile devices), 
GroupWise client for Windows via the Proxy feature, GroupWise client for Windows via the busy 
search feature, a mobile device that is synchronizing GroupWise through GroupWise Mobility 
Service, a POP client, an IMAP client, a SOAP client, a client that is synchronizing GroupWise 
through the GroupWise CalDAV/CardDAV server, a third-party plug-in to the GroupWise SOAP protocol, 
Secure Messaging Gateway, Retain,GroupWise Disaster Backup & Recovery,GroupWise  Forensics, 
GroupWise Mailbox Management, or GroupWise Reporting & Monitoring.  With respect to the Retain 
product, each Mailbox subscription license or license that has maintenance includes one User 
license for the GroupWise email module.  Any additional use of Retain requires a separate purchase 
of the applicable license.

Enterprise Messaging Suite Test Mailbox. You are not required to purchase a license for a Test 
Mailbox, which is defined as follows: 1) no more than two (2) mailboxes per post office that exist 
in Your internal, production environment but are used solely for testing purposes; or 2) no more 
than twenty-five (25) mailboxes that exists in Your internal, non-production environment and that 
are used solely for testing or demonstration purposes.

Enterprise Messaging Suite Resource Mailbox. You are not required to purchase a license for a 
Resource Mailbox, which is a mailbox created and designated as a resource mailbox as described in 
the user documentation.  Resource Mailboxes include mailboxes used for a place, item or role (such 
as a computer, company vehicle, or conference room) that users can schedule or busy search.  If 
You have purchased licenses for the Micro Focus iPrint product, a Resource Mailbox can be used to 
facilitate mobile printing.

TeamWorks. Use of the TeamWorks Licensed Software is a benefit of Your maintenance or subscription 
coverage for Enterprise Messaging Suite.  For each covered Enterprise Messaging Suite Mailbox 
License, You are granted a limited license to internally use one corresponding object in the 
TeamWorks database.  The foregoing license grant applies solely during Your maintenance or 
subscription term for the Enterprise Messaging Suite product and terminates upon the earlier of 
(1) termination or expiration of maintenance or subscription coverage of Your Enterprise Messaging 
Suite licenses, or (2) purchase of maintenance coverage for less than the total number of Your 
Enterprise Messaging Suite licenses.  

NetIQ eDirectory License. The quantity of user licenses for the NetIQ eDirectory software included 
with Your lawfully acquired licenses for the Enterprise Messaging Suite is equal to the greater of 
(1) the quantity of mailbox licenses You have lawfully acquired for the Enterprise Messaging Suite 
product, or (2) 250,000 users per company/entity. The foregoing eDirectory licenses are not 
upgradeable, may only be used with GroupWise software, and are otherwise subject to the license 
agreement accompanying the NetIQ eDirectory software and the definition of “user” specified therein.



ANNEX 2, SPECIFIC SOFTWARE TERMS
Evaluation Software.  If the Licensed Software is an evaluation version or is provided to You for 
evaluation purposes, then, unless otherwise approved in writing by an authorized representative of 
Licensor, Your license to use the Licensed Software is limited solely for internal evaluation 
purposes in non-production use and in accordance with the terms of the evaluation offering under 
which You received the Licensed Software, and expires 60 days from installation (or such other 
period as may be indicated within the Licensed Software).  Upon expiration of the evaluation 
period, You must discontinue use of the Licensed Software, return to an original state any actions 
performed by the Licensed Software, and delete the Licensed Software entirely from Your system and 
You may not download the Licensed Software again unless approved in writing by an authorized 
representative of Licensor.  The Licensed Software may contain an automatic disabling mechanism 
that prevents its use after a certain period of time.

Notice Regarding Collection of Telemetry Data. The Licensed Software may be enabled by You at Your 
option to collect and send to Licensor data about Your product deployment and usage on an 
anonymous basis for purposes of product improvement. By entering into this License Agreement, You 
expressly consent to the collection of this data in the manner You select. 

Hosting Restrictions.  In the event that Licensee desires to have a third party manage, host 
(either remotely or virtually) or use the Licensed Software on Licensee’s behalf, Licensee shall 
(1) first enter into a valid and binding agreement with such third party that contains terms and 
conditions to protect Licensor’s rights in the Licensed Software that are no less prohibitive 
and/or restrictive than those contained in this License Agreement, including, without limitation, 
the Verification section; (2) prohibit use by such third party except for the sole benefit of 
Licensee; and (3) be solely responsible to Licensor for any and all breaches of the above terms 
and conditions by such third party. 

(10092017)

THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS
Java 8.  The Licensed Software may contain or require Licensee to separately obtain the Java™ 
Platform, Standard Edition Runtime Environment (JRE), and in such event any use of the JRE shall 
be governed by the license agreement accessible at 
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html.  Use of the Commercial 
Features for any commercial or production purpose requires a separate license from Oracle. 
“Commercial Features” means those features identified Table 1-1 (Commercial Features In Java SE 
Product Editions) of the Java SE documentation accessible at 
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index.html.
ORACLE
The Licensed Software contains viewer software licensed by Licensor from Oracle America, Inc. 
(“Oracle”) and may include Oracle JDBC drivers. For purposes of this addendum, the term “You” or 
“Your” refers to Licensee and the term “program” refers to the Oracle viewer software and related 
Oracle components as well as Oracle JDBC drivers. Oracle requires that You agree to the following 
terms regarding use of the program. 
Terms of Use
1. Your use the program is restricted to the scope of the Licensed Software and to Your internal 
business operations. You may permit Your agents, contractors, outsourcers and non-employee users 
to use the program on Your behalf for Your internal business operations, subject to the terms of 
the end user license agreement and provided that You are responsible for their use of the Licensed 
Software and compliance with the end user license agreement. Physical control and administrative 
control of the programs must remain with the legal entity that executed the end user license 
agreement.
2. You are prohibited from (a) transferring the program except for temporary transfer in the event 
of computer malfunction if the Licensed Software embeds the program in a physical device; 
(b) assigning, giving, or transferring the program or an interest in them to another individual or 
entity (and if You grant a security interest in the programs, the secured party has no right to 
use or transfer the programs).
3. Oracle or its licensor retains all ownership and intellectual property rights to the program.
4. You are prohibited from: (a) use of the program for rental, timesharing, subscription service, 
hosting, or outsourcing; (b) the removal or modification of any program markings or any notice of 
Oracle’s or its licensors’ proprietary rights; (c) making the programs available in any manner to 
any third party for use in the third party’s business operations (unless such access is expressly 
permitted for the specific program license); (d) reverse engineering (unless required by law for 
interoperability), disassembly or decompilation of the programs (the foregoing prohibition 
includes but is not limited to review of data structures or similar materials produced by 
programs); and (e) publication of any results of benchmark tests run on the programs.
5. You are required to comply fully with all relevant export laws and regulations of the United 
States and other applicable export and import laws to assure that neither the programs, nor any 
direct product thereof, are exported, directly or indirectly, in violation of applicable laws.
6. You are hereby notified that the programs are subject to this restricted license and can only 
be used in conjunction with the Licensed Software. You are not permitted to modify the programs. 
At the termination of the end user license agreement, You will discontinue use and destroy all 
copies of the program and documentation.
7. You agree to permit Novell to audit Your use of the programs and report the audit results to 
Oracle or allow Oracle to perform the audit at Your cost. You agree to designate Oracle as a third 
party beneficiary of the agreement with respect to the programs. You may not require Oracle to 
perform any obligations or incur any liability not previously agreed to between Novell and Oracle. 
8. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Oracle disclaims liability for (a) any damages, 
whether direct, indirect, incidental, special, punitive or consequential, and (b) any loss of 
profits, revenue, data or data use, arising from the use of the programs. 
9. Some programs may include source code that Oracle may provide as part of its standard shipment 
of such programs, which source code shall be governed by the terms of the end user license 
agreement. Third party technology that may be appropriate or necessary for use with some Oracle 
programs is specified in the Licensed Software documentation or as otherwise notified. Such third 
party technology is licensed to You only for use with the program under the terms of the third 
party license agreement specified in the Licensed Software documentation or as otherwise notified 
and not under the terms of the end user license agreement.
(February 2013)

End User License Agreement
1

